---
cover: false
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.10"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/qr-background.jpg
  og_image: /assets/images/bcc-card.jpg
title: Verifiable Credentials & Medical Test Results
subtitle: BCT-2020-001
hide_description: true
classes:
  - wide
permalink: /testimony/bct-2020-001/
---

**BCT-2020-001**<br>
**Agency:** California Assembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection<br>
**Date:** May 5, 2020<br>
**Authors:** Christopher Allen<br>
**Testimony Link:** 
{: .notice--info}

## Text


_[AB2004](https://openstates.org/ca/bills/20192020/AB2004/) would
permit an issuer of COVID-19 test results or other test results to use
verifiable credentials, as defined by the World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C), for the purpose of providing test results to individuals. The
bill would also require that verifiable credentials issued for this
purpose follow the open source W3C Verifiable Credentials Data Model,
including incorporation of decentralized identifiers, verifiable
credentials, and JavaScript Object Notation for Linked Data
(JSON-LD)._

_The bill passed the legislature and was vetoed by the Governor._

_Christopher testified virtually in CA Assembly Room 4202 with
qualified support:_

My name is Christopher Allen, and I am the founder of Blockchain
Commons, a benefit corporation supporting security infrastructure,
software development, and research. I also speak on behalf of the
broader international standards W3C Credentials Community Group where
I am a co-chair. My past achievements include being co-author of
SSL/TLS, the broadest deployed security standard in the world, and the
basis upon which most Internet traffic moves securely.

As regards the subject matter of this bill, I am not a lawyer,
regulatory expert, or lobbyist, but I am one of the leading experts on
the new security architecture known as Verifiable Credentials and
Decentralized Identifiers, the first being now an International
Standard through the World Wide Web Consortium, the second in late
stages of the international standardization process after 5 years of
incubation.

As far as any questions in regards to these underlying technologies
themselves for the use by the State of California I do not have
reservations — these new technologies offer a number of privacy by
design features and address security issues that legacy credential and
identity technologies do not. Organizations around the world including
the US Department of Homeland Security, the Canadian government,
Taiwan, New Zealand, and a number of EU nations are committed to
moving toward solutions using these new architectures.

My reservations regarding this bill are less about the efficacy of
this technology, but the immaturity of robust health privacy and risk
models, adversary analysis, and expected public health benefits in
regards to the future use of these for specific public health
purposes, which were not included in the original use cases originally
defined in these standards. In particular, I feel that specific use of
Verifiable Claims for Immunity Credentials require additional risk
analysis and possibly additional legislation.

For instance, given the current lack of understanding of the
effectiveness of COVID19 immunity test from the public health
perspective, I have concerns in regard to the success of the suggested
outcomes if an Immunity Credential was rushed to market too soon. In
addition, I believe that the use of immunity Credentials may have
discriminatory effects that may require additional work for the
Assembly to address, such as including whether NOT having a disease
can be used as consideration in layoffs, the ability to get fair
compensation or unemployment or to apply for disability.

However, I do believe that if the State Assembly is going to authorize
some form of investigation, proof of concept, or implementation of new
privacy-preserving health care technology, that Verifiable Claims and
Decentralized Identifiers should be authorized as being acceptable, as
they are the safest architecture available today. Implementors still
need to be careful with the details — it is still possible to use
these tools in ways that may compromise their intended goals for
security & privacy.

That being said, continued use of the current extremely fragmented
legacy architectures for identity and personal health information in
the health care community has higher risks. I urge you to support
allowing the use of new Verifiable Claims international standards in
your regulations.

Thank you for the opportunity to speak before the Assembly on this
topic. Let me know if you need more details on the topics above or if
there are other ways my expertise can be of service.